[Music]
rookie workout mistakes you should avoid
to the gym is great
workouts are good for both your body and
your mind after a stressful day
but we often make mistakes during our
workouts that stand in the way of
being healthy did you know that doing
exercises in a wrong way
is even worse than doing nothing at all
why do you go to the gym regularly and
don't get the desired results
in this video we collected the 11 most
common workout mistakes
that you should avoid remember the devil
is in the details
[Music]
11. long cardio workouts
when it comes to cardio workouts you
need to learn to keep the balance
on the one hand don't exhaust yourself
overdoing cardio can have a negative
effect on your cardiovascular system
we are pretty sure that the last thing
you want from your workouts is heart
problems
on the other hand not doing enough means
exercising in vain
of course it's different for everyone
but the average duration of a cardio
training should be around 30 minutes
we recommend you start small and
gradually build your way up
this way you will know your limits and
keep your heart safe
[Music]
10. low-calorie diet
generally low-calorie diets are healthy
and can slow down the aging of the heart
and prevent cardio diseases
however they contain very small amounts
of fat that your body needs so much
during an intensive workout to get the
necessary fats
proteins and carbohydrates for your body
eat more salmon
and avocado these products have enough
fats but they are healthy
and non-destructive
nine not sleeping enough
of course not sleeping enough means
lower physical performance and slower
recovery
and when you feel tired there is no
point going to the gym
in such a bad mood you will be cheating
yourself doing the exercises just for
show
like this video if we're right
8. sports drinks with electrolytes
drinks with electrolytes can harm your
body a lot
because they contain a large amount of
sugar this
is exactly why they seem to make you
feel energetic and refreshed
drink pure water instead many people
think
drinking water when exercising is wrong
but
you are not one of them right don't
torture yourself by not drinking any
water
during a workout your body actively
loses a lot of fluids
so be kind don't deprive yourself of
life-sustaining water
seven eating more
[Music]
yes sometimes you may feel like a good
workout is a great feat
so you deserve a feast we're not fans of
this pun either
if you want to keep your weight in check
or even decrease it
you have to eat right and stay away from
empty calories
what do you choose super tasty
hamburgers
or a beautiful body
six working out on an empty stomach
if you come to the gym hungry there is a
great chance you won't be able to finish
the workout because of tiredness
and feeling unwell if you don't want to
lose consciousness
this is not a joke it's real in the gym
eat two hours before exercising two
hours is enough for the body to digest
the food to the point when you are
already not feeling sleepy
and not hungry yet
five going to the sauna after a workout
like we said before during an intensive
workout you lose a lot of fluids
because of that your body pressure rises
so a hot bath or a sauna can be very
dangerous for your heart and blood
vessels so if you want to wash off the
sweat
take a warm shower instead it's quicker
and less harmful
[Music]
4. using a scale
do you feel discouraged every time you
step on a scale
well you shouldn't you can comfort
yourself with this thought
muscles weigh more than fat so maybe the
fat you wanted to burn
turned into muscles seriously speaking
to get
accurate measurements you need to use
special devices that can tell you how
much fat there is on your body
[Music]
three not hiring a fitness trainer
some people if not most need a shia
labeouf in the gym
someone who can yell at them just do it
if you are one of such people
don't be cheap and hire a trainer he
or she won't let you stop when you want
to trainers are usually great motivators
besides their job is to develop a
training program that fits your needs
and your physical capacity a
professional trainer can make sure you
do
all exercises correctly and don't harm
yourself
accidentally two
not cooling down
don't forget to take a few minutes to
stretch after a workout
it will reduce the pain in the muscles
and make your recovery
much faster also when running don't stop
immediately
slow down gradually and walk a little in
the end
don't forget about this and leave some
energy for it
one daily workouts
regular workouts and eating healthy food
are your way to a great body
but regular doesn't mean every day if
you work out every day
you will feel exhausted and your muscles
won't have time to recover
ironically daily workouts lead to the
increase of cortisol in your body
this hormone may cause your weight to
increase so that
all of your effort will be for nothing
to avoid this take breaks between
training sessions
get enough sleep and eat well
do you know any other workout mistakes
that we should avoid in the gym
share them in the comments section below
share this video with your friends to
help them get their dream bodies
and hit the like button below the video
the more likes we get
the faster we make new videos for you
you